apache spark tutorial
apache spark is a lightning-fast cluster computing designed for fast computation.
it was built on top of hadoop MapReduce and it extends the MapReduce model to efficiently use more types of computations whihc includes 
interactive Queries and Stream processing.

apache spark
apache spark is a lightning-fast cluster computing technology, designed for fast computation.
it is based on Hadoop MapReduce and it extends the MapReduce model to efficiently use it for more types of computations, which includes interactive queries
and stream processing.


the main feature of spark is its in-memory cluster computing that increases the processing speed of an application.



There are three ways of spark deployment as explained below:
cluster managers
standalone
    spark standalone deployment means spark occupies the place on top of HDFS (Hadoop Distributed File System) and space is allocated for HDFS,
    explicitly. 

Hadoop yarn
    hadoop yarn deployment means, simply, spark runs on yarn without any pre-installation or root access required. it helps to integrate spark into hadoop ecosystem or hadoop stack.
    it allows other components to run on top of stack.

spark in MapReduce
    spark in mapReduce is used to launch spark job in addition to standalone deployment. With SIMR, user can start spark and uses its shell without any administrative access.


Apache spark core
spark core is the underlying general execution engine for spark platform that all other functionality is built upon.
it provides in-memory computing and referencing datasets in external storage systems.

Spark SQL
spark sql is a component on top of spark core that introduces a new data abstraction called SchemaRDD, which provides support for structured and semi-structured data.

Spark Streaming
Spark streaming leverages spark core's fast scheduling capability to perform streaming analytics. 
it ingests data in mini-batches and performs RDD (Resillient Distributed Datasets) transformations on those mini-batches of data.

MLib(Machine learning library)
MLib is a distributed machine learning framework above spark because of the distributed memory-based spark architecture.
It is, according to benchmarks, done by the MLib developers against the alternative least squares (ALS) implementations.
Spark MLib is nine times as fast as the hadoop disk-based version of Apache Mahout (before Mahout gained a spark interface).

GraphX
GraphX is a distributed graph-processing framework on top of Spark. 
it provides an API for expressing graph computation that can model the user-defined graphs by using pregel abstraction API. 
it also provides an optimized runtime for this abstraction.







